# crypto_tracking

My current project is taking a deeper look into the homeless crises in Austin and the US, and I hope to be winding that up with a deliverable result in the next few weeks, but with this repository I am establishing the arena for my next project in the space of cryptocurrency. Last week I saw an interesting chart (link included later) that showed the balance of power over time for historical empires. The graph had plenty of flawed assumptions, and even the idea of how to graph relative "power" is debatable, but it was still a powerful tool to help comprehend the rise and fall of civilizations across history and how they chronologically relate to one another.

This idea led me to wonder what this chart would look like for the spread of power of cryptocurrency. For the notion of "power" initially I thought about unit price. Unit price does express some measure of demand, however, it can also easily be manipulated by limiting or flooding supply. Next, I considered using trade volume because it shows a level of usage in real time, but trade volume also tends to rise in times of rising and falling value, so wouldnt necessarily reflect the idea of "power" that I was after. Finally I settled on percent of market cap. Market cap share expresses the total cumulative value of each coin in a way that I would imagine as similar to the notion of an empire's power. It encompasses the currency's total population by counting each coin, and the currency's wealth by adding the value of the coins together. 

This idea doesnt transfer 1:1 though, since while the idea of global power can be though of in terms of shares of a finite resource (the world), when cryptocurrency is charted in the same way, it is missing the information that the "world" of cryptocurrency has expanded exponentially over time. While each currency is, in a sense, battling for the real estate of consumer attention, that is not the whole story, and I will circle back and try to develop a better way of delivering this idea visually. 

While my main interest in cryptocurrency is Bitcoin, for this next project I will be looking to dive into the field of cryptocurrency as a whole and explore questions like, "where does their value come from?", "what use do they serve for ordinary people?", "how do they compare to gold, the dollar, or other stores of value?", etc. I am excited to take a deep dive into this incredible space, learn more about the different technologies involved and see what can be uncovered by following the data!
